I hate to break it to you but polar
bears aren't actually white and their
tongues aren't black you can make your
body believe you're well-rested
and you can spell your email in Morse
code are you ready to have your world
turn upside down oops here we go
your shoelaces keep untying because
every time you walk the nuts on them are
under a huge gravitational force seven
times higher than normal for comparison
the world's most powerful rollercoaster
makes you experience a gravitational
force of six point three g's
your taste receptors won't work without
saliva
unless whatever you eat is dissolved in
it your taste buds won't detect food
molecules Angel Falls the largest
uninterrupted waterfall on our planet is
as tall as a 300 storey building in the
summer the area sometimes gets so dry
that the water evaporates before
reaching the ground and this from our
sushi department most wasabi you can buy
in a supermarket is actually colored
horseradish with different flavorings
real wasabi is rather expensive and
challenging to prepare one of the things
Jupiter's famous for is the great red
spot a giant spinning storm this spot
used to be so gigantic that it could fit
two or even three Earth's but now it's
shrinking it wouldn't fit more than one
earth these days the Giant Pacific
octopus has nine brains three hearts and
blue blood it can also change its
texture and color to camouflage itself
in a matter of seconds your fingers
don't have muscles of their own they
borrow them now all the muscles that
move finger joints are in your forearms
and palms some shredded cheese contains
edible wood pulp called cellulose this
ingredient doesn't do any harm when you
digest it it's added to prevent the
cheese from clumping together sound can
influence the way you perceive the taste
of your food low-frequency sounds
enhance the bitterness while
high-frequency noise brings out the
sweetness so
delicious your nose has at least 400
different scent receptors that's why
most people can detect around 1 trillion
different smells that's three to four
times as many as the number of stars in
the Milky Way galaxy if two pieces of
the same kind of metal touch in space
they bond and get stuck together it
doesn't happen on earth because water
and air keep pieces apart people are
more honest when they're tired that's
why most confessions are made during
late-night conversations your body loses
from 30,000 to 40,000 skin cells every
hour within a day you shed almost a
million skin cells no wonder your
friends sometimes seem a little flaky
they can't help it
firefighters usually extinguish flames
with wet water it's water mixed with
special wetting agents these are
chemicals that help water soak into
objects and spread everywhere more
easily the Sun is an average sized star
and still it could fit 1,300,000 Earth's
the star is also 333 thousand times as
heavy as our planet people have been
able to spell their emails in Morse code
since 2004 that's when a new symbol at
was added to the code for the first time
the character is actually called a comet
and consists of a and C signals with no
break in between placebos sleep is when
you make your brain believe you've slept
well if you're convincing enough it can
boost your brain performance a human
hair which is one of the narrowest
visible things in the world is more than
a million atoms across scientists claim
that the best time to take a nap during
the day is from 1:00 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.
that's when a dip in your body
temperature makes you sleepy NASA has
translated radio waves created by
planets atmospheres into audible sounds
that's how astronomers found out that
Neptune sounds like ocean waves Jupiter
like being underwater
and Saturn's voice resembles background
music to a horror movie here on earth
it's bebop jazz now I made that one up
the Sun surface is scorching hot but a
bolt of lightning is five times hotter
earth get struck by 100 lightning bolts
every second which results in eight
million lightning strikes a day and
around three billion a year shocking
astronauts tasted the first food grown
and harvested in space in 2015 it was
red romaine lettuce that had been
growing in a special chamber for 15
months almost three percent of people
have an inborn inability to recognize
the voices of people they know this
phenomenon is called phone agnosia
there's no solid land under the North
Pole all you can see there is sea ice by
the way the gravitational pull is
stronger at the poles and if you travel
there you'll weigh a bit more besides
all the heavy warm clothes you're
wearing your decisions are more rational
and your reasoning is sharper when you
think in a foreign language crackers
have holes in them so that when they're
baked bubbles don't ruin the snap
researchers asked 57 volunteers to try
the same hot chocolate out of red cream
white and orange colored cups almost all
the participants agreed that the
chocolate tasted better when they were
drinking it out of orange cups make
sense to me
cats have 32 muscles in each ear thanks
to these muscles kitties hear every
little noise they help the ears rotate
independently and thus detect sounds
better pineapples have nothing in common
with hinds when early explorers saw this
fruit for the first time they thought it
looked like pine cones hence the name if
you need to figure out how ripe your
cranberries are try dropping them on the
ground if a cranberry is ready to eat
it'll bounce off the floor farmers use
this method to check if their product is
ready for shipment
the moon's gravity is only 17% of the
Earth's if your weight was 100 pounds on
our home planet you'd only weighs 17
pounds on the moon you would be able to
walk a distance six times longer and
carry a weight six times heavier there
your mind wanders 30 percent of the time
while you're doing your day-to-day tasks
when you're walking or driving along a
deserted Highway it might be even more
up to 70% of the time cucumbers and
celery are famous for containing a lot
of water surprisingly potatoes are only
15 percent behind them you can actually
juice a potato when fresh it contains
80% of liquid when you breathe through
your nose one nostril always inhales
more air than the other they swap over
every 15 minutes or so one study also
claims that when you breathe through
your right nostril you get more oxygen
than while doing it through the left one
apparently your nose knows what to do
chili peppers contain a chemical called
capsaicin it tricks your mouth into
believing it's being burned but all
these unpleasant sensations are only in
your head
while your mouth is in your head for an
accent syndrome is a real although
extremely rare condition people who have
this syndrome start speaking their
native language with a foreign accent
where'd visible matter
for example planets and stars makes up
just 5% of the universe the rest
consists of invisible dark energy as 68%
and dark matter about 27% it leaves us
with 95% of space we know nothing about
our achi Boudreaux phobia is an
irrational fear of peanut butter getting
stuck to the roof of your mouth hey if
you like that one
hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia who
is one of the longest words in the
dictionary and in an ironic twist is the
name for a fear of long words
a photon which is a tiny packet of light
often spends more than 40,000 years to
travel from the Sun's core to its
surface but after that it needs just
eight minutes to reach Earth the longest
of person iron clothes and one go was
100 hours and this result was added to
the Guinness World Records in 2015
Gareth Sanders from the UK I earned
almost 2,000 items of clothing non-stop
with no more than half a minute breaks
in between hey if you're thinking what
I'm thinking then yes he's the real Iron
Man in the early days of photography a
wide-open smile was seen as childish and
rather impolite
that's why photographers told people to
say prunes instead of cheese this word
kept the mouth taut polar bears tongues
aren't black they're actually pink and
only modeled with black that's why they
may look dark blue or even purple
they're also as smooth as dogs tongues
yeah you get close enough to check that
out the polar bear skin is black and
it's long coarse hairs are hollow that's
the reason why the animal looks white
the airspace is in each hair scatter
light as it bounces inside the horseshoe
crab has eyes all over its body they're
ten with some of them on top of the
animal shell down its tail and near the
mouth all these eyes help the crab get
around this is also why crab bifocals
are so expensive when you sleep your
brain is getting cleaned special fluid
flushes through it and washes away
dangerous toxins and harmful proteins
that build up there during the day hmm
brain washing it's a good thing
[Music]